=head1 NAME

Shipwright::Manual::BuildMultiArchVessel - Build a vessel with multi-arch support

=head1 SYNOPSIS

In this tutorial, we'll build a vessel with multi-arch support, a.k.a
the vessel that I can use on multiple systems, e.g. Mac and Ubuntu.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Shipwright starts to have multi-arch vessel support since 2.3.0.
Since then, all installed bin dirs and lib will live in as/$arch_name, instead of top dir.

=head2 create

the vessel source is exactly the same as normal one.
The only different part is the way we build vessel with I<bin/shipwright-builder>
We need to build the vessel on both Mac and Ubuntu.

Let's do this on Mac first:

    $ ./bin/shipwright-builder --install-base /tmp/foo --as Mac

if we don't specify --as, the default name is the system's uname.
e.g. the name is Darwin on Mac.

after we built it on Mac, we need to transfer the source of vessel and
vessel itself to ubuntu, then build it again, to let it build to the same vessel dir.

    $ ./bin/shipwright-builder --install-base /tmp/foo --as Ubuntu

ditto. if we don't specify --as, the as name will be Linux

Then we're done, the built vessel can run on both Mac and Ubuntu systems now.

=head2 fiddle

most CPAN modules are written in Perl, so is cross-platform, this will results
in not less redundance in vessel, we can use shipwright-filter to squeeze it:

    $ ./bin/shipwright-filter --squeeze

This will remove redundant files and link to the left files.

e.g. as/Mac/lib/perl5/App/SD.pm and as/Ubuntu/lib/perl5/App/SD.pm have the
same content, after the above cmd, the latter one will be deleted and (hard)
linked to the former one.

=head2 use

the multi-arch vessel can't auto-switch between the systems for us, so we need
to run a cmd to tell it to, e.g.

    $ cd /tmp/foo
    # on Mac, we switch to Mac
    $ ./tools/shipwright-utility --switch Mac
    # on Ubuntu, we switch to Ubuntu
    $ ./tools/shipwright-utility --switch Ubuntu

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Shipwright::Manual::Tutorial>,

=head1 AUTHORS

sunnavy  C<< <sunnavy@bestpractical.com> >>

=head1 LICENCE AND COPYRIGHT

Shipwright is Copyright 2007-2010 Best Practical Solutions, LLC.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

